[Music]
this is the swara Gustav or in English
the heavy or great Gustav and very very
heavy and great it was it weighed 1350
tons and could fire a seven-time shell
to a range of 30 miles developed by Nazi
Germany in the late 1930s the heavy
Gustav 800 millimeter caliber monster
cannon was explicitly designed as a
siege artillery weapon to penetrate and
decimate the super thick reinforced
concrete fortifications of the French
defensive facility known as the Maginot
Line
built by the leading German arms
manufacturer crop AG and in fact named
after the company's CEO Gustav Krupp the
heavy Gustav railway gun stretched 155
feet in length including its one hundred
six foot long barrel it required a team
of thousands to dig embankments and lay
railway tracks and around three days and
250 people were needed to assemble the
gigantic weapon
the infamous Fuhrer Adolf Hitler was
personally involved in the guns
commissioning in fact it was not until
Hitler visited the crook company and
inquired about the viability of such a
theoretical weapon that things were
finally set in motion and the colossal
cannon was born
[Music]
quite ironically by the heavy Gustav
done itself was never actually used in
the fighting between the French and
Germans as the Nazis essentially invaded
France via Belgium and therefore almost
entirely circumvented the immensely
expensive line of heavy French
fortifications indeed the brilliantly
constructed yet completely underutilized
Maginot Line has since become a synonym
for how the best laid plans can so often
go badly awry
then again owing to the damage that
Gustav will soon wreak upon an
impressive system of Soviet
fortifications perhaps the allegedly
impregnable Maginot Line was best left
untested
and so it was in June of 1942 and at the
Eastern Front siege of sevastopol that
gustav was called in and first used in
combat
[Music]
in spite of a massive conventional
German aerial and artillery bombardment
the tenacious Soviets safely hidden in
their massive underground bunkers had so
far managed to hold the strategically
critical port city of Sevastopol
[Music]
it was therefore hoped by the German
High Command that Gustav's imminent
arrival would help break the stalemate
and end the siege in their favor
[Music]
transported to the Crimea on a heavily
customised
1.5 kilometer long 25 car train Gustav
was painstakingly positioned assembled
and secured by some 3800 personnel and
when the world's largest ever gun was
finally unleashed it proved to be
utterly devastating
[Music]
over a short four-week period
commencing on the 5th of June 1942
Gustav operated with clinical and
overwhelming force with a single seventh
on concrete piercing shell reportedly
penetrating more than 100 feet of Earth
before obliterating a crucial Soviet
underground a munitions store
by early July Gustav had brought the
siege to a decisive conclusion with the
Soviets surrendering and with the city
of Sevastopol left lying in ruins
[Music]
so while Gustav's effectiveness as the
ultimate siege braking artillery piece
was undeniable it actually barely took
any further part in the war
owing to the extraordinary inherent
challenges in transporting it as well as
due to the limited opportunities
available to a Nazi regime that would
soon come under siege itself
[Music]
uncertainty and conjecture surround
Gustav's fate but it seems this
phenomenal weapon the likes of which the
world had never before seen was probably
destroyed by the retreating German army
so as to avoid it falling into the hands
of the advancing Soviet Union
[Music]
you